today today is a very special day for
today we have a brown box on short
circuit you know what that means that
means networking and this is a fun one
this is the oh God I don't know how to
say it deio deiso I'm going to go with
deiso for the rest of this video but
this is a router and a pretty cool one
because it's designed to run open source
firmware in particular you can see it
right there open sense or OPN sense
however you want to say it which is a
fork of pfSense and I much prefer it
over pfSense for a number of reasons but
the main thing is this device is made by
the company that manages the open sense
open source router
project it's pretty big I mean right off
the bat we've got a getting started
sheet of paper what does it tell you to
do pre-installs with open sense Business
Edition that is the commercial paid
version that gives you a few extra
things we'll talk about that a bit later
and then we've got the power cables
standard C13 to c14 because this is
meant to go in a rack I guess and pdus
usually don't have normal plugs oh they
do give you the normal power cables and
then just a USB mini very simple
packaging there's not a whole lot in
here this is the DC 4280 from deio what
did I say I was going to call it de deio
I don't know in terms of ports we've got
four sfp28 25 gig ports four SFP plus 10
GB ports and four RJ45 base 2.5 gig
ports there's a USB over here we've got
a console port for serial connection two
power indicators for the power supplies
and I think that this is a reset button
probably and then all that's left I
guess is this Grill airf flow it's 3D
printed though that's super cool what's
around back dual redundant power
supplies I mean I guess they probably
are serviceable from inside but they're
not hot swap they do have individual
power buttons and there are two of them
which is nice we've got a grounding
screw and then fans a big part of the
design of this thing according to their
website is that they spent a bunch of
time modeling the air flow and cooling
so that this could use the least amount
of energy possible on cooling not being
wasteful and also cooling it well
because there's a fair bit of Hardware
in here I guess we should just open it
up right hopefully I don't break it cuz
I would like to try it later I was like
I'm going to be smart and bring the no
to a screwdriver LT store.com that has
torque spits I didn't check if they were
the right torque spits the only CPU
information they list is epic 3000 CPU
the fastest epic 3000 CPU available for
the most demanding Network loads on this
specific one so it's a 16 core dual die
chip also inside is 64 GB of ddr4 memory
which we are going to see in like
actually seconds and a 1 TB mvme SSD
which is a fair bit of storage um for a
router warranty void if seal broken come
on guys what is this that's a load of
these are apparently development units
so um it could be ever so slightly
different from the production Hardware
but from my understanding I believe they
did do some 3D printed stuff for this
which I think is what these are that's
cool wow this is very like clean I want
to take the front off too cuz I can't
really see everything oh God oh God
there's different sizes of screws now
two different types of screws is not
that bad I mean there's the same
threading these are just shorties
beautiful hey there we go damn that's
pretty we got the power supplies over
here as I suspected they are internal
they are not hot swap per se but they do
appear to be easily swap there's these
big chunky connectors that run from each
power supply to the board they do have
little screws connecting them but you
just disconnect those screws I imagine
and it will just come out let's find out
hey there we go yeah okay so those are
pretty easy to swap 12 Vol 16.7 amps so
that works out to like what 180 Watts or
something like that 200 watts each okay
cool I see what they mean about like
optimized cooling hey they made their
own 3D print things why what is this do
you see this this is so strange why does
it have that shape does this like reduce
turbulence or something I know like on
their product page they have a photo of
the airflow simulation like the fluid
dynamics and it looks very smooth cool I
guess they're 93% efficient power
supplies what else we got is there
anything about the cooling in here aside
from just this sick photo it's a 42 DBA
it's pretty quiet it's not like dead
silent but if you were in an office
space with some people talking you you
definitely wouldn't be able to hear it
or if it's in a closet you're not going
to have any issues there how do these
come in what the heck oh ouchie that
didn't feel very nice these bits just
butt up against the motherboard and then
there's nubbins that stick into the fan
holes so this is just like friction
vibing here cool simple I like that you
don't need screwdriver to take that
apart but also it was a little finicky
to get in and out we got Ram here what's
the ram transcend 16 GB unbuffered 3200
megat transfers per second put that back
in and then what's the SSD also
transcend it's a 1 TB is it like decent
I don't know I'm sure it's fine there is
two slots though you could put a second
one in there and then like raid them
that's cool I think when you install
open sense there is an option to boot it
from ZFS cool yeah I would slap another
SSD in here although now that I'm
thinking about it this is a very
expensive device there probably should
just be two ssds in here or at least
give you the option to order it with two
there's a slot there seems like an
opportunity to make some money
I don't know we've got absolute chungus
heat sinks over here oh hey look we can
see the inside of
the the duct it's a less Advanced shape
than I was thinking oh look and then the
fans you want to swap the fan oh just
slides out of there I would like to see
the CPU let's see the CPU these screws
on this heat sink don't have Springs
it's just hard mounted those are nonfer
screws okay great use Ferris screws they
have magnetic capabilities meaning you
can pick them up when you drop them
hey look at that that's a CPU it's
definitely like a an embedded one it's
not socketed I don't think we're going
to get any information by scraping off
the goop but that's what it looks like
do I scrape off the goop I might scrape
off the goop look at that just says AMD
epic you bastards it's an epic embedded
3451 max turbo frequency of 3 GHz
wonderful now I need to make it have
goop again no there's lots of goop on
here I'd rather just like reuse their
existing goop I wouldn't recommend this
usually but this is like a brand new
device so it's probably fine but also
don't do this let's put this back
on there we go okay that's how you do
that in case you were
wondering okay how do I get this one
out probably have to take the
motherboard out for
that yeah there we go okay
cool what is this this is an EZ e 810 C1
that makes sense the A10 this is an
Intel uh Nick it's a network card for
what though all right right this is the
100 Gig network card just in chip form
this Powers the 4 25 gig ports the 10
gig ports run off of the S so to my
understanding along with these RJ45
ports but they needed a little more
horsepower to run this 100 Gig and
they're using an Intel 810 I found
something that would be perfect for this
um obviously our thermals just in
general now are completely
invalid but I've got some of the honey
well PTM 7950 phase change thermal pads
that we actually sell in LTT store now
uh this stuff is super cool you put it
on and it's like a solid and then once
it heats up it turns into a goo and kind
of fills all the crevices but this stuff
is like damn near indestructible I think
it can handle like 150 C for 1,000
hours or something crazy like that which
is perfect for this application because
I know that this thermal paste pad goop
stuff is not going to have any problems
down the road okay it's on there honey
well on
there there we go
okay Pro tip don't take that
off other than that we got power
distribution on the back that's a Nick
so RAM storage power supply hookups lots
of ports let's put this thing back
together turn it on and uh route some
packets
very quickly hopefully but not before
this message from our sponsor pulseway
managing your it system shouldn't be
difficult and our sponsor pulseway makes
performing important actions on your
system simpler while having complete
visibility into your network from
anywhere all you need is pulseway on
your phone and you can monitor manage
and troubleshoot your workstations it
works on any operating system so take
control of your servers and it systems
with pulseway today by trying out a
commitment free trial at the link down
below okay I think it's back together I
hope seemingly I don't have any more
part oh damn
it I know how it gets airf flow now I
wasn't really looking but these are
exhaust fans which means it's going to
pull in air all along the front
here all around all those ports and then
it just happens to get sucked through in
a few particular places now if you're
wondering why I have this thing I'm not
just doing a short circuit on this
because it's cool I'm I'm also doing it
because of that um it's because we're
going to be using these as our routers
for the office and I say routers because
we have two of them let's turn it on
very curious to see how loud this thing
is hopefully we didn't modify that in
anyway that's super not that loud and
there's actually quite a bit of air flow
coming through this considering the
noise level let's hook it up okay so
ports zero is assigned to land
address oh good there is actually a port
labeled zero okay and Port one is
assigned to W and uses DHCP to obtain an
IP address so we will plug in that this
is our incoming internet connection into
Wan which means this box should now have
internet and then we need something to
plug into zero we've made some changes
we now have two computers on the table
this is my test bench it's an epic 70
402p with a connectx 6 card dual 25 gig
and then we have a mini form ms01 which
is a 13900 H kind of laptop based little
mini computer which has the same network
card in it as well we're going to be
using this one as like a server and this
one as like a client so we can run just
just a basic speed test through this box
just to see what it can do cuz
supposedly this thing can firewall at 60
gbit which is quite a bit it can also do
threat protection at 7.5 GB which is
pretty cool like IPS IDs with presumably
surcot I just want to be able to test if
we can do like 50 gig between the two I
don't have a way to really like easily
plug in 60 gig per client into each of
these and like combine those at least in
a a way that will be quick for me to on
set so it's just going to be 50 gig but
realistically that's still a lot to be
frank so let's try it now that I'm
thinking about it this mini form right
here I think is 600 bucks us maybe and
this network card you can get used for
like a 100 bucks it has half as many
ports you only have 2 25 gigs and 2 10
gigs but pretty cost effective option
considering the cost of this obviously
few downsides there but eh okay so this
should have DHCP server on it by default
hey there we go let's go through the
wizard host name thicky domain name damn
we'll use Google DNS it's a pretty basic
Setup Wizard it's enough to get you with
a DHCP range and your when connected but
it's not really going to go beyond that
um especially for what we're going to
try to do with bonding a bunch of
connections this is uh it's pretty basic
this is what open sense looks like if
you're familiar with PF sense it's
basically the same interface a lot of
the menus are the same but you just take
the menus from the top bar and bloop
onto the side I personally think it's a
little easier to get around and I just
like the fact that it's more up to dat
but I could spend literally like 3 hours
going through every single menu so I'm
not going to do that I'll show you a
couple quick ones we've got the
dashboard here uh in firewall we can see
our firewall rules I've created a couple
networks already for the test we're
going to do in a little bit so ignore
that we've got inter spes you can list
them all and set assignments you can
create vlans and Aggregates and connect
to VPN like open PPN or IP SEC you can
control your DHCP server here this is
what the settings for DHCP server look
like if you've used open sense or
pfSense before these will look very
familiar to you we're currently using
Unbound DNS and that's what this looks
like so if you're more interested in the
ins and outs of open sense as a firewall
and routing software there's lots of
other videos we'll link to down below
that are cool that give you a good
overview of it but broadly it's a fast
secure open source self hostable routing
firewall software it should be running
open sense Business Edition by default
uh you can just switch it over to the
non-b bus edition if you want but it
does come with a one-year license for
free with it and then after that it's
149 you get access to a integrated goip
database which you can already kind of
get for free but it's just easier you
get a virtualization image of it which
is again just kind of easier uh open
Central that could be useful for you if
you have a bunch of these or even just
two it's like a centralized monitoring
setup so you can have multiple of them
exposed in kind of one One dashboard and
other than that it's basically uh a an
ebook that tells you how to use it
better and a 20% discount if you want
support but the other thing is you're
just kind of supporting an open source
project which is cool on its own we've
been running the business Edition for
like over a year now and not to say that
we had any issues with the normal
version the Community Edition um but it
is nice to just kind of have a little
bit more peace of mind when you're
updating it knowing that it should just
be fine we have everybody's favorite
Flex Optics Universal direct attach
cables these things are awesome they
come unprogrammed or you can order them
programmed if you want you have to pay a
little bit of a fee but the basic thing
is you can program this cable to be
recognized as any number of other vendor
cables I could
program this side to be Cisco and this
side to be Dell and this side to be
melanox whatever you want to do so that
when I plug this Cable in it thinks it's
a melanox cable and this side well we're
plugging into an Intel mix so I'll tell
it that it's an Intel cable and both
devices think that they're using
supported cables they should just work
it's very nice you can run into
situations where if you have like let's
say a Dell switch and you're having
problems and you contact support they're
going to see oh that's not a Dell cable
sorry we we're not going to support that
this way they don't know not that I'm
endorsing line to your support reps but
it's a it's a consideration so let's
program some uh they put little stickers
on here so you can tell which side is
which if you program them differently if
you plug a fiber transceiver into the
flex box it'll actually tell you the
light levels so you can also use it as
like a uh a light meter if you're having
problems with your fiber you think
you're not getting enough gain you just
plug it in to whatever transceiver
you're using and it'll tell you exactly
we've got everything cabled up with two
of our 20 5 gig Flex optics cables to
each computer our minis for them and my
test bench I've installed proxmox 8.1 on
both of them and set up a container each
with its own network so we've got really
four networks one per cable here then I
installed I perf and started running it
so now in theory I see blinking lights
there is traffic on all four Nicks so if
we go to our dashboard Here There You Go
25 gig in on each interface 25 gig out
that's total 50 gigabit that's uh that's
a fair bit of traffic I mean considering
we're at
209% CPU usage mind you this is with an
MTU of 9,000 I suspect if we went to a
normal MTU uh which is like the max
packet size you would probably have
quite a bit more CPU usage uh it is
going through the firewall it is passing
rules we're technically passing traffic
kind of like inter VLAN routing but
really it's inter Network routing inter
subnet routing because each of these is
its own subnet SL Network um the traffic
has to get pasted look at all those
packets they're routing to places I mean
in terms of the rest of it clearly it's
it's quite fast um it's not getting any
louder I think my test bench is louder
the knct to a fans on there I I don't I
don't notice any sort of ramp up if we
go to temperatures says it's vibing at
like 50 C that's not bad remember we
did take the heat sink off so those
numbers mean pretty much nothing yeah
it's a router it rips the hardware is
pretty cool I like that it's built by a
company that makes cool software I do
wish it had two ssds though I guess I
haven't said the price yet uh it's
6,000 which
isoo that's a lot of
money when you compare to other
offerings like if you were to buy a
fortigate for instance that can do
similar throughput you know it it's not
out to lunch but it is it's a fair bit
of money especially considering this
minis Forum right here if you're to buy
that with 32 gigs of RAM and a 1
terabyte SSD it's
$830 plus you buy like a dual Port 25
gig Nick or you could do 100 Gig Nick
and split that into 425 gigs like this
box has um you know you're looking at
1,000 maybe
$1,200 it's a hefty premium to pay I
don't know that I would buy a product
like this for me it's always been very
much a DIY approach but it's still very
cool cool and it's awesome to see a
company that we like that makes good
software make some cool Hardware